In this lecture we're going to dive a little bit deeper into parts and learn how we can work with different
pieces there.
And let's go ahead by starting back inside of our Android studio project.
We need to clear out a little bit of code so all the code from this parse object where we make the example
object down to where we're logging what information we're going to delete all of that because that was
just a simple test to see if we could get things up and running.
And with that let's go ahead and move over to our main activity where we're going to be writing some
code in hopefully you get a good grasp on how you can add things to the parse server pull things back
down edit them if you need to.
We're going to cover all of that.
So the first thing that we want to talk about is how do we make a new object and have it stored inside
of parts.
Well first you have to create a class so a class if we go back to the browser here so you can see there's
a couple of classes here there's role use or those are ones created by default by parse.
But then we made the example object that we're going to make a new one here in this example scenario.
Let's say we're creating a video game and we want someone to be able to save their scores.
So what we're going to do is we're going to make a new class called SCORE.
And just remember a class is kind of like in S.
Q Well whenever we create a table it's if we go back to the browser here for example example object
if we think of this as a table these are then individual rows inside of a table and so they can have
you know different properties like my string my number whatever are score objects is going to have like
you know a score with it maybe a user name.
And so let's go ahead and walk through that.
So the first thing that we want to do is we want to create a new parse object and you can decide what
you want to name that in this case are going to call it score because we're trying to represent the
score so we're going to say new capital parse object and then inside of the parentheses you need to
pass in a string of the name of the class.
Now all classes and parses and parse need to be uppercase so make sure you do that.
Next we're going to take this score object and we're going to add some properties onto it so we're going
to say score dot put.
And this is where you can add in some information.
So the first thing is you have to provide the field name that you're going to be putting there.
So in this case let's say we want to add a user name we would add that first thing comma we would specify
what the specific user name is so I might say Nick here.
Then with this score we have to you know say what the actual score is.
So let's go ahead and do that we're going to stay put and we're going to say score for the name and
then we need to add an actual score there so let's do something like 45.
That was my score in this hypothetical videogame.
Now once you have this in place we need to actually take this score object and save it to parse and
partials made this super simple.
All we have to do.
So we just have to take our score object and say score dot and then save.
And there's all these different options there straight up save save eventually save in background and
for both eventually in background you have these callbacks which are.
We'll tell you about when it happens so you don't want to do the save one because that will sort of
pause your app until the save happens.
I recommend the save in background and particularly the one that has a callback because then you can
know whether or not things were successful.
So let's do Savon background and we're going to say we're going to create a new and we want to create
a new save callback.
And if you just hit enter it's going to autocomplete for you there and then the code inside of here
it'll provide this parse exception.
If there was some sort of issue so we can say you know first check and see if there's anything to this
exception that they gave us are going to say if he is equal to no.
Which if that was the situation situation that means everything is OK.
Else that would be you know something's gone wrong here and we need to know about it.
And so we could just take this B and do a print stack trace with that.
Now if it is OK we want somehow to you know let ourselves know that it all worked out.
So let's go ahead and just do a log on this.
So we're going to say log I mean we're going to say success and maybe we'll just mention here that we
saved the score.
So there you have it.
This is kind of the basics of all it takes to make a new object and parts we have to say the class that
we want to make.
We have to put in some properties there and then we have to save it.
OK.
So let's go ahead and hit run here on the emulator.
And with that let's go ahead and get that popped up and we should see over here that we're going to
have a new class called Score pop up with one item inside of there.
OK.
So this opened up if we go to log cat.
Look at that we saved the score.
And if we go back to the browser and refresh the page here look at that we have a new score class and
if we click on that.
Here's that one score that we created with a score of 45 in the name Nick.
Now if we go back to android studio let's go ahead and create a new score for someone named Shaun.
Score beat me or Shaun beat me on a score.
He has a score of like 65 let's say and we'll go ahead and run this because I just want you to see how
you can add multiple more objects that you add the more it's going to stack up here.
So let me reload this page now and look at that.
There's now two people inside of the score class and again think of this I think it's best to think
of it as you know as you well table write like this is the name of the table is score.
And then these are rows inside of the table and so you know these are individual instances of particular
scores.
All right so now that you've got a good grasp on that let's go ahead and move forward and talk about
how we can grab things from par so we're going to come back to our code and let's go ahead and just
comment out what we've done so far.
And then below we're going to talk about how we can get things from our server.
So in this situation we need to make a query so we're going to say parse and we want to query Yes better
just type that out better than scrolling through the whole thing there.
So this is going to be a parse query where we're looking to get a parse object back so we'll put that
inside the angle brackets.
And let's just go ahead and call this a query.
And this is going to be equal to a capital parse query dot and this is where we want to say get queery
4 and you have to pass a class name here so if we want to get the score objects we would pass in capital
score then with that.
Now that we have this query object we can say queery dot get.
And there's all these options for getting background or get first in background.
We want to do the get in background so let's go ahead and do that.
With this we have to first specify the ID of the object that we want to get and you're saying Well what's
an object ID.
Well just like we had a primary key with the SU l database.
If we go back to the browser here every item inside of parce has an object id that uniquely identifies
it.
So any new row that's added here it's going to have a new object id like the example object any of these
things are going to have an object ID.
So for example if we want to grab the score for Nick with the score 45 we want to copy this object id
come back to our code and put that inside of quotes.
And that is going to go get us the particular object that we're looking for.
Now once we do that we want to go get a callback whenever we are able to successfully get this object.
So we're going to say you get a callback for a particular parse object just like that.
Let's make sure that we put semi-colon at the end of that and you'll see this method that we have here
gives us a parse object the one that we were hoping for unless something didn't work out in that case
we'd want to you know look to this exception for some help but this is where we can move forward.
So let's do an if statement to make sure we actually got an object back.
So the check that we'll do is we're going to say you know if E is equal to no and not 2 percent or size
or any of the number stamped so it's easy to know that I mean there was no air and as long as object
is not equal to nil this will assure us that we actually have an object that we can move forward with.
So if this is the case on this particular object you can get to its particular properties by saying
dot get.
And you just have to provide a string like for example if we wanted to get to up here we had said user
name and score we could type in username here and that would give us back the particular object that
we're looking for.
Now this just general does get usually isn't the best you want to do something like get a string.
If you're looking for a string.
So for the user name that would be a good one you know but if we're working with for example the score
we'd want to you know go get it.
But this is a good starting point.
So let's go ahead and log out this information.
So we're going to say a log.
I will say maybe you just use name comma and then let's go ahead and cut paste that in there.
So now it's going to log out the username.
And let's also log out the score we're going to have to change this a bit but we're going to say score
should be instead of get string.
We want to get it but we still have to provide the term score right inside of there and then we've got
to turn this into strings or do a a to string with this.
Go ahead and wrap that around.
OK.
And I've got to go get that object.
There we go.
All right.
So this code should have us log out the user name and score for Nick because we put in that particular
object ID if we change the object id we should you know see Sean for example if we had put in his.
But let's go ahead and check this out.
And if we come down boom look there's Nick for 45.
So just for kicks let's go grab the other object id paysite in there and run shall we.
So we should now see the information for Sean.
So let's go ahead and run this and come on we believe in you like that Sean with a score of 65.
Pretty cool.
Now you may be wondering how can I update an object once already happened so let's say we want to update
Sean's score.
He put even more of a beat down on me.
I think he got a higher score than he had before.
Well what we can do is for example here we can take this particular object that we got back and we can
just update some of this information so we can say you know put and let's change the score to be something
like 85.
Now like he had a huge jump up.
So go ahead and take that object.
We're going to put that new information now in order for that to be official.
Want to do our object save in background.
In this case I'm not really concerned about the callback.
I just want to see if this works.
Let's go ahead and run this.
So there should be two points here one is that when we log this we should see the score updated to 85.
And that's not because the save happened super fast and we're able to get the right information but
this object here is now locally here inside of this function.
And so it's not like it's going to get in it from the internet and bringing it back.
But when we go and log it out like it will just show what we changed it to.
The real test will be when we look on the browser to see if it's there.
So let's open up blog cat.
Unexpectedly it said Shaun 85.
But the real test is Shawn's currently 65 we should see that up to 85.
Boom.
OK.
At a good place.
So the next thing for us is I have a challenge for you.
I want you to do a little bit of work here with working with some tweets.
I'm going to comment out this code.
I'm just going to update where that goes.
And my new challenge for you is I want you to first create a tweet class game then I want you to make
a with that class.
They should have a user name and they should be able to tweet with that.
I want you to save it to parse after you've done that query it.
And lastly I want you to update the tweet.
So basically make a tweet class make sure it has a user name and a tweet save it to parse and then query
it and update it.
Basically what we just did before with the score stuff but now do it on your own and hopefully doing
this exercise on your own is going to make it that much more stuck in your brain.
All right so hopefully that went well.
Step number one for us is we want to make a new parse object type that out.
Now I'm going to call this tweet and this is going to be equal to capital parse object and or excuse
me in New parse object and or and a new class name that we are going to call capital tweet.
Then with this tweet we are going to put some information there so we're going to stay put.
Are going to say this person has a user name.
I'll put my Twitter handle.
Nick shuk Walter I know it's a really long one.
And then with this I'm also going to put a particular tweet.
So this is going to have the name of tweet and we'll give it the value of.
I like cheese Yeah.
Let the world know.
So with this in place we've got to save this tweet so I'm going to do dot save in background.
And I would like a callback about this are going to do new save callback.
Let's check and see if there was an error.
So we're going to set up an if statement say if he is equal to.
No.
That means everything's good song and a go ahead and log out.
OK.
And we'll say save success.
But if there was an issue we'll go ahead and just say whatever that air is.
Let's do a print stack trace.
We need to know about it.
OK.
So let's go ahead and run this.
See what we get from our emulator here.
Hopefully good news and then when we come back to Safari here and reload we should see that pop up.
So look at that we have saved success let's reload this page.
At that we have a tweet.
I like cheese by user name Nick.
Chuck Walter.
So we have completely completed the part of creating a tweet class username and tweet have been added
to it we've saved it.
Next we need to do a query with it.
So let's go ahead.
I mean we can basically just copy and paste the code that we had here before and just change out some
information so I'll go ahead and paste this from before I want to go get the particular tweets I'm going
to copy its object id and update that.
This is good this is doing the proper check.
Now with this we don't want to do the update stuff just yet so I'm going to go ahead and comment that
I don't we still want to get the username but rather than getting the score we want to get the tweet
which is a string.
So I'm going to copy this line of code and paste the below and just change this to be tweaked.
Also change this to be tweaked so we don't run this it should be able to log out the tweet that we have
saved the one that said I like cheese and also said you know say who it was that posted it.
So here comes the app and look at that save success and not seen that information so I'm not completely
sure oh this is the problem when you copy and paste.
You got to be really careful So this is looking for the score class I need this to be the tweet class.
So let's go ahead and run this one more time and we should hopefully now see the correct information.
So here it comes.
And boom look at that Nick.
Check Walter.
I like cheese.
So we know that that's OK and I guess every time that we've been running we've been making more and
more tweets.
So that's kind of funny.
They all say I like cheese so whatever.
Last step for us we need to update the tweet so we had code here to update the object.
This one is updating the score so rather than swar score we want to update the tweet to say something
like cheese is ok.
Maybe I posted that now because I'm suddenly lactose intolerant or something like that.
So go ahead and hit run here check to see if we get the new tweet message here and we should see you
know the tweet updated so that cheeses OK.
Now I want you to see this.
The idea of X capital ETF will come back.
So if I reload X ETF should show Cheese's OK.
And look at that x ETF now says geez.
OK.
So hopefully you got a good grasp on this.
I think you're ready to move forward and start making this Instagram app.